---
layout: exhibit
title: "our company"
company: "New Providence Acquisition Corp. III"
filing_id: new_providence_iii
document_type: our_company
counsel: "Loeb & Loeb"
filing_url: /filings/new_providence_iii/
---


# Our Company

We are a blank check company incorporated on December 4, 2024, as a Cayman Islands exempted company and formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, amalgamation, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses, which we refer to throughout this prospectus as our initial business combination. We seek to acquire and operate a business in the consumer industry and we believe that our management team is well-suited to identify opportunities which have the potential to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns for our stockholders. However, we are not limited to this industry, and we may pursue a business combination opportunity in any business or industry we choose, including one outside of the United States.

# Our Management Team

Alexander Coleman has 20 years of institutional private equity experience, focused predominantly on U.S. based middle market companies operating in the food and beverage, information, satellite communications, and business services and specialized manufacturing markets. Mr. Coleman has been managing partner of New Providence Corp, an investment firm investing in consumer companies since 2019. Mr. Coleman was most recently Chairman of NPA I from 2019 to 2021 and served as Chairman of NPA II from 2020 until its liquidation in 2024. Mr. Coleman is the founder and Managing Partner of Annex Capital Management LLC, a U.S. based private equity group founded in 2004. Annex Capital focuses on making control investments in middle market companies in a broad array of industries, and also acquires distressed debt and direct equity in the secondary market. Concurrently with Annex Capital, Mr. Coleman was a co-Head and Managing Partner of Citicorp Venture Capital, Citi's New York based leveraged buyout fund. Prior to these positions, from 1996 through to 2004, Mr. Coleman was a Managing Investment Partner and co-Head of Dresdner Kleinwort Capital LLC, Dresdner Bank's North American merchant banking group. While at Dresdner, Mr. Coleman oversaw the bank's U.S. based private equity businesses, which included control and minority equity investing, mezzanine, distressed senior debt and, for a period of time, a fund-of-funds program. From 1989 to 1995, Mr. Coleman worked with several groups while at Citi, including the Media Group, the Restructuring Group and Citicorp Venture Capital. Mr. Coleman received an MBA from the University of Cambridge and a BA in Economics from the University of Vermont. Mr. Coleman has served as a Director and Chairman of the Board for numerous private and public companies, including Remy International Inc. (Nasdaq: REMY), StackTeck Systems Ltd., Maxcess International, TeleCorp PCS, Hypercube (f/k/a KMC Telecom), Mrs. Field's Famous Brands Inc., Gardenburger Inc., NurseFinders Inc., Waddington International, Inc. and JAC Products, Inc.

Gary P. Smith has held senior management positions at PepsiCo, Red Bull, Big Red, Inc. and NPA I. Mr. Smith has been managing partner of New Providence Corp, an investment firm investing in consumer companies since 2019. Mr. Smith was most recently CEO of NPA I from 2019 to 2021 and served as CEO and CFO of NPA II from 2020 until its liquidation in 2024. As CEO of Big Red from 2007 to 2018, he built a diversified beverage company by acquiring numerous, complementary brands across many segments of the market over a 10-year period, ultimately selling the business to Keurig Dr Pepper. He also led the buy side acquisition and integration of All Sport, Nesbitt's, NuGrape, Thomas Kemper, HyDrive Energy Water and XYIENCE Energy Drink. Prior to Big Red, Mr. Smith joined Red Bull as the executive vice president of a three person board of directors each operating as the co-CEO. He held direct responsibility for sales, trade marketing, motorsports marketing, finance, information systems, legal department, supply chain, operations and human resources. Mr. Smith continued to serve as the senior board member and corporate secretary from 2000 to 2007 while leading all day to day efforts as the Chief Operating Officer. Before taking over the leadership role at Red Bull, Mr. Smith enjoyed a successful career with PepsiCo, Inc. from 1986 to 2000. He began his career in Dallas with PepsiCo Food Systems where he held positions with increasing responsibility that led up to his role as division president. In his last role with PepsiCo, Mr. Smith led the West Florida Bottling Operations for Pepsi Bottling Group. Mr. Smith holds an M.B.A. degree with a concentration in finance from The University of Dallas. He also holds a Bachelor of Business Administration degree in finance from Mississippi State University.

Leo Valentine, our Chief Financial Officer and director nominee, has been the chief financial officer of New Providence Holdings, an investment firm since October 2024. Prior to this, from September 2023 to October 2024, Mr. Valentine was Director of Financial Planning and Analysis (FP&amp;A) at Public Square (Nasdaq: PSQH), where he was responsible for driving strategic financial initiatives and supporting corporate growth through financial planning, capital raising, performance analysis, and scenario modeling. Prior to joining Public Square, from October 2019 to August 2023, he was an Associate Director at Protiviti, where he led financial due diligence engagements for both buy-side and sell-side transactions, working with clients, sponsors, and prospective buyers. Before that, Leo was a Transaction Services Manager at Grant Thornton, where he executed financial and accounting due diligence for a global client base across various industries. Earlier in his career, Leo held positions at Crowe Horwath and Deloitte, where he specialized in risk compliance, audit, and advisory services for financial institutions. His extensive background in financial modeling, quality of earnings analysis, and capital structure assessments has been pivotal in supporting client decision-making throughout the deal cycle. Leo holds a Bachelor of Science in Accounting and Finance from Rutgers University and is a licensed Certified Public Accountant in the State of New York. He is also a member of the American Institute of CPAs.

Our executives have proven track records in identifying undervalued companies and cultivating strategies to maximize their operating results and market potential, thereby generating value for stockholders. Our management team is led by our co-Chairmen and co-Chief Executive Officers, Alexander Coleman and Gary P. Smith. Our executives have worked together for almost two decades, including most recently with NPA I and NPA II. NPA I went public in September 2019, generating gross proceeds of $230,000,000, and completed a business combination with AST SpaceMobile on April 6, 2021 (the "Closing Date"). AST is building the first, and only, space-based global broadband cellular network to operate directly with standard, unmodified mobile devices based on its extensive IP and patent portfolio. Its team of engineers and space scientists are on a mission to eliminate the connectivity gaps faced by today's five billion mobile subscribers and finally bring broadband to the billions who remain unconnected. On the Closing Date, NPA I completed a business combination (the "AST Business Combination"). On the Closing Date the following occurred: (a) NPA was appointed as the managing member of AST &amp; Science LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("AST") and AST became a subsidiary of NPA; (b) NPA changed its name to "AST SpaceMobile, Inc."; (c) immediately prior to the closing of the AST Business Combination, all then-outstanding shares of Class B common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of NPA ("NPA Class B Common Stock") held by NPA I's sponsor (the "Sponsor Stock") converted into shares of Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of NPA ("NPA Class A Common Stock") immediately prior to the AST Business Combination; (d) each share of NPA Class A Common Stock, including those converted as described in (c) above, was converted into one share of Class A common stock of NPA I, and each warrant of NPA (an "NPA Warrant") was converted into one warrant of NPA I; (e) AST restructured its capitalization, appointed NPA I as its managing member and issued to NPA I 51,729,704 units of ownership interest in AST (the "AST Common Units"), in exchange for which AST received approximately $227.0 million remaining in NPA I's trust account following (i) the $4.8 million payment of deferred underwriting commissions (ii) $0.2 million of redemptions made in connection with NPA I's special meeting of stockholders relating to the AST Business Combination and (iii) the repayment of a $0.6 million related party loan between AST and NPA I; (f) AST issued to the Company warrants to purchase up to 17,600,000 AST Common Units; (g); certain PIPE investors purchased 23,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock; (h) NPA I issued 51,636,922 shares of Class B common stock of NPA I, which carries one vote per share but no economic rights to the Existing AST Equityholders (other than Avellan); and (i) NPA I issued 78,163,078 shares of Class C common stock of NPA I, which carries ten votes per share but no economic rights to Avellan. In connection with the acquisition, less than 1% of NPA I's public shares were redeemed. AST SpaceMobile's closing price on April 1, 2025 was $21.85.

NPA II went public in November 2021, generating gross proceeds of $250,000,000. NPA II experienced redemptions of approximately 79% of its public shares in connection with an extension in May 2023 and approximately 23% of its remaining public shares in connection with an extension in May 2024. In November 2024, NPA II commenced its liquidation.

We believe that our management team is well-positioned to identify an attractive target business within the consumer industry and that our proprietary deal sourcing network &#x2014; including fellow industry executives, private owners, private equity funds, and investment bankers &#x2014; will enable us to pursue a broad range of opportunities across the consumer industry landscape. We believe that our ability to identify and implement operating improvements will be central to our differentiated acquisition strategy, and that our relationships in the industry and network of past colleagues and associates will greatly assist our transaction due diligence and execution.

However, we expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other SPACs and other entities competing for the types of businesses we intend to acquire. In recent years, the number of SPACs that have been formed has increased substantially. Because there are more SPACs seeking to enter into an initial business combination with available targets, the competition for available targets with attractive fundamentals or business models may increase, which could cause target companies to demand improved financial terms, which could increase the cost of, delay or otherwise complicate or frustrate our ability to find and consummate an initial business combination. See "Risk Factors &#x2014; Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, it may be more difficult for us to complete our initial business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public shareholders may receive only their pro rata portion of the funds in the trust account that are available for distribution to public shareholders, and our warrants will expire worthless" and "Risk Factors &#x2014; As the number of special purpose acquisition companies evaluating targets increases, attractive targets may become scarcer and there may be more competition for attractive targets or such attractive targets may not be interested to consummate a business combination with a SPAC due to a negative public perception of mergers involving SPACs. This could increase the cost of our initial business combination and could even result in our inability to find a target or to consummate an initial business combination." Additionally, in recent years, a number of target businesses have underperformed financially post-business combination. There are no assurances that the target business with which we consummate our initial business combination will perform as anticipated.

# Our Board of Directors

Our Board of Directors will include seven members upon the commencement of trading the units on Nasdaq. The board will be led by our directors, Co-Chairmen and Co-CEOs Alex Coleman and Gary Smith and our CFO, Leo Valentine, and will consist of industry leaders and renowned investors. Each brings diversity of experience, perspective and industry contacts that when combined create a distinguished Board of Directors. In addition to Mr. Coleman and Mr. Smith, our Board of Directors will be comprised of:

Rick Mazer will serve as an independent director immediately upon the commencement of trading of our securities on Nasdaq. Mr. Mazer has served as a director at New Providence Holdings, an investment firm, since 2019 and served on the board of directors of NPA I until its business combination and NPA II until its liquidation. Mr. Mazer served on the Board of the Culinary Institute of America from 2007 to 2019 retiring as Chairman. Mr. Mazer has also been a member of the boards of Food for All, Gardenburger, Thrifty Foods of Burlington, and Hospital Cost Consultants and Accountants, Inc. Mr. Mazer previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Ventura Foods from 1997 to 2010, where he played a key role in growing the company's sales from $500 million to more than $2 billion annually. Prior to joining Ventura Foods, Mr. Mazer was a consultant to producers, manufacturers, retailers, and grocery and convenience store wholesalers. Mr. Mazer also previously held management positions at Deloitte and Touche, Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. and Boston Consulting Group. Mr. Mazer received degrees in Economics and Industrial Management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Daniel Ginsberg will serve as an independent director immediately upon the commencement of trading of our securities on Nasdaq. Mr. Ginsberg has served as a director at New Providence Holdings, an investment firm, since 2019 and served on the board of directors of NPA I until its business combination and NPA II until its liquidation. Mr. Ginsberg served on the Board of Potbelly Corporation from 2014-2020, the last two as Chairman. Mr. Ginsberg previously served as Chief Executive Officer of Dermalogica from 2011 to 2014, and has a comprehensive background in branding strategy, marketing, and advertising. Prior to these positions, Mr. Ginsberg served as Chief Executive Officer of Red Bull North America until 2008. Before taking over the leadership role at Red Bull, Mr. Ginsberg was an advertising and marketing executive who held executive positions at agencies such as NW Ayer, Cunningham &amp; Walsh and dGWB. Mr. Ginsberg also served as Chief Marketing Officer at Hardee's. Mr. Ginsberg received an MA in Communications and Marketing from Boston University. Mr. Ginsberg continually works as a consultant in support of companies such as Boody North America, Golden West Food Group, Perfect Hydration alkaline water, and KOE kombucha.

Timothy Gannon will serve as an independent director immediately upon the commencement of trading of our securities on Nasdaq. Mr. Gannon has served as a director at New Providence Holdings, an investment firm, since 2019 and served on the board of directors of NPA I until its business combination and NPA II until its liquidation. Mr. Gannon is a Co-Founder of Outback Steakhouse, where he was a senior executive responsible for food and menu oversight through its public offering in 2012. In 2006, Mr. Gannon co-founded OSI Restaurant Partners, an operator of Outback Steakhouse, Carrabba's Italian Grill, Bonefish Grill, Roy's Restaurant and Fleming's Prime Steakhouse &amp; Wine Bar units. Prior to co-founding Outback Steakhouse, Mr. Gannon spent 14 years at other restaurant groups including Steak &amp; Ale and Copeland's Cajun Caf&#x00e9;. In 1994, Mr. Gannon was named Entrepreneur of the Year by Inc. magazine. Other honors include the Florida Restaurant Association's Lifetime Achievement Award, an honorary Doctorate in Business Administration and Food Service Management from Johnson &amp; Wales University, and induction into both the U.S. Business Hall of Fame and the Tampa Bay Chamber of Commerce Business Hall of Fame. Mr. Gannon received a BA in Art History from Florida State University.Greg Stevens will serve as an independent director immediately upon the commencement of trading of our securities on Nasdaq. Mr. Stevens has served as a director at New Providence Holdings, an investment firm, since 2019 served on the board of directors of NPA II until its liquidation. Mr. Stevens has focused on retailer profitability through the combination of digital marketing services, advertising technologies, advertising sales and both SaaS and enterprise e-commerce platforms. He has 22 years of experience leading start-ups and mid-market companies. Greg was at the helm of three firms that were successfully sold to private equity and publicly traded holding companies. He has a proven track record of successfully managing companies through growth and restructuring phases. Greg is currently an advisor to multiple technology businesses as well as a board member at a SaaS marketing firm. Greg also serves as Executive Vice President at Advantage Solutions and is a board member at a marketing technology firm.

The past performance of our management team or our Board is not a guarantee either (i) of success with respect to any business combination we may consummate or (ii) that we will be able to identify a suitable candidate for our initial business combination. You should not rely on the historical record of our management teams' or our board's performance as indicative of our future performance. Our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest with other entities to which they owe fiduciary or contractual obligations with respect to initial business combination opportunities. For a list of our officers and directors and entities for which a conflict of interest may or does exist between such persons and us, as well as the priority and preference that such entity has with respect to performance of obligations and presentation of business opportunities to us, please refer to the table and subsequent explanatory paragraph under "Management &#x2014; Conflicts of Interest."

We believe our management team have the skills and experience to identify, evaluate and consummate a business combination and is positioned to assist businesses we acquire. However, our management team's network and investing and operating experience do not guarantee a successful initial business combination. The members of our management team are not required to devote any significant amount of time to our business and are concurrently involved with other businesses. There is no guarantee that our current officers and directors will continue in their respective roles, or in any other role, after our initial business combination, and their expertise may only be of benefit to us until our initial business combination is completed.

# Our Sponsor

Our sponsor is a Delaware limited liability company, which was formed on November 7, 2024 to invest in our company. Although our sponsor is permitted to undertake any activities permitted under the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act and other applicable law, our sponsor's business is focused on investing in our company. Alex Coleman and Gary Smith are the managing members of New Providence Holdings III, LLC and hold voting and investment discretion with respect to the securities held of record by the sponsor. As of the date hereof, other than Messrs. Smith and Coleman and our independent directors, no other person has a direct or indirect material interest in our sponsor. Messrs. Coleman and Smith own membership interests in our sponsor, which currently represent approximately 100% of the economic interests in our sponsor. The non-managing sponsor investors have expressed an interest to purchase non-managing membership interests in our sponsor, reflecting interests in an aggregate of 561,075 private placement units (whether or not the underwriters' option to purchase additional units is exercised) of the 591,500 private placement units (or up to 611,075 private placement units depending on the extent to which the underwriters' option to purchase additional units is exercised)) to be purchased by our sponsor and an aggregate of 4,488,600 founder shares, in a private placement that will close simultaneously with this offering. See "Summary &#x2014; The Offering &#x2014; Private placement units and constituent securities." Our chief financial officer, Leo Valentine, will receive an indirect interest in 50,000 founder shares through membership interests in our sponsor. In addition, each of our independent directors will each receive, for their services as a director, an indirect interest in 10,000 founder shares through membership interests in our sponsor but will have no right to control the sponsor or participate in any decision regarding the disposal of any security held by the sponsor, or otherwise. Other than Messrs. Coleman and Smith, none of the other members of our sponsor will participate in our company's activities. Assuming our independent directors and, as described below, all prospective non-managing sponsor investors are issued membership interests in our sponsor, Messrs. Coleman and Smith will each hold 14.9% (or up to 19.5%, depending on the extent to which the underwriters' option to purchase additional units is exercised) of the sponsor membership interests reflecting indirect interests in the founder shares held by our sponsor and 2.6% (or up to 4.1%, depending on the extent to which the underwriters' option to purchase additional units is exercised) of the sponsor membership interests reflecting indirect interests in the private placement units held by our sponsor. None of the non-managing sponsor investors will hold voting interests in our sponsor nor have any rights to control our sponsor or to vote or dispose of any securities held by our sponsor and none of the sponsor non-managing members have a direct or indirect material interest in our sponsor.The following table sets forth the payments to be received by our sponsor and its affiliates from us prior to or in connection with the completion of our initial business combination and the securities issued and to be issued by us to our sponsor or its affiliates:
